CA1/README.md, before:

# CA1: Version Control with Git: Technical Report

**Author:** André Salgado
**Date:** 12/03/2025
**Course:** DevOps
**Programme:** SWitCH DEV
**Institution:** ISEP

## Table of Contents

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Assignment Setup](#assignment-setup)
- [Part 1: Developing in Master Branch](#part-1-developing-in-master-branch)
  - [Goals](#goals)
  - [Development](#development)
    - [Part 1.1](#part-11)
    - [Part 1.2](#part-12)
- [Part 2](#part-2)


## Introduction
This report details the **Class Assignment** 1 for the DevOps course. This assignment has two parts: **Part 1** Version Control with Git, and **Part 2** Build Tools with Gradle. Project results are detailed in the **Final Results** section.

## Assignment Setup
The first steps of the assignment are to clone the application to the computer local folder using **git clone <example-URL>** and then change directory using **cd** command to access the Basic folder and run the application using **./mvnw spring-boot:run**. After a few tweaks the application run successfully. 
Following that, I made a new repository named after DevOps / School Year / Student ID. Then I cloned the repository to a local folder in my computer using **git clone <my-repository-URL>**.

## Part 1

### Goals
-   Create CA1/part1 directory and copy the Basic folder from example repository into the new folder.
-   Add a JobYears (integer) field to the application.
-   Add support for the new field.
-   Add unit tests for testing the creation of Employees and the validation of their attributes (for instance, no null/empty values).
-   Debug the server and client parts of the solution.
-   Once the new feature is completed (and tested) commit and push with a new tag (v1.2.0).
-   At the end of the assignment mark the repository with the tag ca1-part1.1.


### Development
In the first part of the assignment setup tasks we are also asked to create a new folder using **mkdir CA1/part1** and then copied the Basic folder of the example application into part1 folder.
After the part one setup, the first commit was made and pushed using the commands **git add .** and **git commit -m "Added basic files to repository"**. This first commit was then pushed via **git push -u origin master**.
Following that, the commit was tagged with the command **git tag -a v1.1.0 -m "version 1.1.0"** and pushed with **git push --tags**.

With everything now in place and the application running, it is time to add the JobYears field to the Employee file and parameter validation methods.
It is worth mentioning that later in the development of Part 1 I noticed that in the Lecture class a JobTitle field was also asked during setup.
Even tho it was included in a later fix, the development notes will consider it as being integrated at same time as JobYears.

#### Part 1.1: Developing in Master Branch

1. **Adding JobYears to Atributes:**

```java
public class Employee {

    private @Id @GeneratedValue Long id; // <2>
	private String firstName;
	private String lastName;
	private String description;
	private String jobTitle;
	private int jobYears;
```

2. **Adding Parameter Validation Methods:**

```java
private boolean isStringParameterValid(String x) {
return x != null && !x.isBlank();
}

private boolean isJobYearsValid(int x) {
    return x >= 0;
}
```

3. **Adding Parameter and validations to Constructor:**

```java
public Employee(String firstName, String lastName, String description, String jobTitle,int jobYears) {
    if (!isStringParameterValid(firstName) || !isStringParameterValid(lastName) || !isStringParameterValid(description) || !isStringParameterValid(jobTitle) || !isJobYearsValid(jobYears)) {
        throw new IllegalArgumentException("Invalid parameters");
    }
    this.firstName = firstName;
    this.lastName = lastName;
    this.description = description;
    this.jobTitle = jobTitle;
    this.jobYears = jobYears;
}
```

4. **Adding fields to Equals Override:**

```java
@Override
    public boolean equals(Object o) {
    if (this == o) return true;
    if (o == null || getClass() != o.getClass()) return false;
    Employee employee = (Employee) o;
    return Objects.equals(id, employee.id) &&
        Objects.equals(firstName, employee.firstName) &&
        Objects.equals(lastName, employee.lastName) &&
        Objects.equals(description, employee.description) &&
        Objects.equals(jobTitle, employee.jobTitle) &&
        Objects.equals(jobYears, employee.jobYears);
}
```

5. **Adding fields to Hashcode Override:**

```java
@Override
public int hashCode() {

		return Objects.hash(id, firstName, lastName, description, jobTitle, jobYears);
	}
```

6. **Adding Validation to Existing Setters:**

Existing Setters received a new validation method: isStringParameterValid(String string).
This is true for all existing setters as showed in the example bellow:

```java
public void setFirstName(String firstName) {
    if (!isStringParameterValid(firstName)) {
        throw new IllegalArgumentException("Invalid parameters");
    }
    this.firstName = firstName;
}
```

7. **Adding new Getter and Setter for new fields:**

Since news field were added, new getters and setters were added, including their validations:
```java
public String getJobTitle() {
    return jobTitle;
}

public void setJobTitle(String jobTitle) {
    if (!isStringParameterValid(jobTitle)) {
        throw new IllegalArgumentException("Invalid parameters");
    }
    this.jobTitle = jobTitle;
}

public int getJobYears() {
    return jobYears;
}

public void setJobYears(int jobYears) {
    if (!isJobYearsValid(jobYears)) {
        throw new IllegalArgumentException("Invalid parameters");
    }
    this.jobYears = jobYears;
}
```

8. **Adding fields to toString Override:**

```java
@Override
public String toString() {
    return "Employee{" +
        "id=" + id +
        ", firstName='" + firstName + '\'' +
        ", lastName='" + lastName + '\'' +
        ", description='" + description + '\'' +
        ", jobTitle='" + jobTitle + '\'' +
        ", jobYears='" + jobYears + '\'' +
        '}';
}
```

9. **Adding fields to app.js file:**

```javascript
class EmployeeList extends React.Component{
    render() {
        const employees = this.props.employees.map(employee =>
            <Employee key={employee._links.self.href} employee={employee}/>
        );
        return (
            <table>
                <tbody>
                <tr>
                    <th>First Name</th>
                    <th>Last Name</th>
                    <th>Description</th>
                    <th>Job Title</th>
                    <th>Job Years</th>
                </tr>
                {employees}
                </tbody>
            </table>
        )
    }
}

class Employee extends React.Component{
    render() {
        return (
            <tr>
                <td>{this.props.employee.firstName}</td>
                <td>{this.props.employee.lastName}</td>
                <td>{this.props.employee.description}</td>
                <td>{this.props.employee.jobTitle}</td>
                <td>{this.props.employee.jobYears}</td>
            </tr>
        )
    }
}
```

10. **Adding fields to DatabaseLoader.java file:**

```java
@Override
public void run(String... strings) throws Exception { // <4>
    this.repository.save(new Employee("Frodo", "Baggins", "hobbit", "ring bearer",2));
}
```

11. **Tests for the Employee and it's new validation methods:**

Extensive tests were created in order to get 100% coverage in all new fields and methods.
You can see all introduced tests bellow:

```java
@Test
void testEmployeeConstructorNoArgs() {
    //arrenge
    Employee employee = new Employee();
    // act + assert
    assertNotNull(employee);
    assertNull(employee.getId());
    assertNull(employee.getFirstName());
    assertNull(employee.getLastName());
    assertNull(employee.getDescription());
    assertEquals(0, employee.getJobYears());
}

@Test
void shouldSuccessfullyCreateAnObjectEmployee() throws Exception {
    // arrange + act
    Employee employee = new Employee("Andre", "Salgado", "Graduated", "SWITCH Student", 1);

    //assert
    assertEquals("Andre", employee.getFirstName());
    assertEquals("Salgado", employee.getLastName());
    assertEquals("Graduated", employee.getDescription());
    assertEquals("SWITCH Student", employee.getJobTitle());
    assertEquals(1, employee.getJobYears());
}

@Test
void testEmployeeConstructorInvalidFirstName() {
    //arrenge + act + assert
    assertThrows(IllegalArgumentException.class, () -> new Employee("", "Salgado", "Graduated","SWITCH Student", 1));
    assertThrows(IllegalArgumentException.class, () -> new Employee(" ", "Salgado", "Graduated", "SWITCH Student", 1));
    assertThrows(IllegalArgumentException.class, () -> new Employee(null, "Salgado", "Graduated", "SWITCH Student", 1));
}

@Test
void testEmployeeConstructorInvalidLastName() {
    //arrenge + act + assert
    assertThrows(IllegalArgumentException.class, () -> new Employee("Andre", "", "Graduated", "SWITCH Student", 1));
    assertThrows(IllegalArgumentException.class, () -> new Employee("Andre", " ", "Graduated", "SWITCH Student", 1));
    assertThrows(IllegalArgumentException.class, () -> new Employee("Andre", null, "Graduated", "SWITCH Student", 1));
}

@Test
void testEmployeeConstructorInvalidDescription() {
    //arrenge + act + assert
    assertThrows(IllegalArgumentException.class, () -> new Employee("Andre", "Salgado", "", "SWITCH Student",1));
    assertThrows(IllegalArgumentException.class, () -> new Employee("Andre", "Salgado", " ", "SWITCH Student", 1));
    assertThrows(IllegalArgumentException.class, () -> new Employee("Andre", "Salgado", null, "SWITCH Student", 1));
}

@Test
void testEmployeeConstructorInvalidJobTitle() {
    //arrenge + act + assert
    assertThrows(IllegalArgumentException.class, () -> new Employee("Andre", "Salgado", "Graduated", "",1));
    assertThrows(IllegalArgumentException.class, () -> new Employee("Andre", "Salgado", "Graduated", " ", 1));
    assertThrows(IllegalArgumentException.class, () -> new Employee("Andre", "Salgado", "Graduated", null, 1));
}

@Test
void testEmployeeConstructorInvalidJobYear() {
    //arrenge + act + assert
    assertThrows(IllegalArgumentException.class, () -> new Employee("Andre", "Salgado", "Graduated","SWITCH Student", -1));
    assertThrows(IllegalArgumentException.class, () -> new Employee("Andre", "Salgado", "Graduated", "SWITCH Student", -2));
}

@Test
void testSetFirstNameValid() {
    //arrenge
    Employee employee = new Employee("Andre", "Salgado", "Graduated", "SWITCH Student", 1);
    //act
    employee.setFirstName("Fulano");
    //assert
    assertEquals("Fulano", employee.getFirstName());
}

@Test
void testSetFirstNameInvalid() {
    //arrenge
    Employee employee = new Employee("Andre", "Salgado", "Graduated","SWITCH Student", 1);
    //act + assert
    assertThrows(IllegalArgumentException.class, () -> employee.setFirstName(""));
}

@Test
void testSetLastNameValid() {
    //arrenge
    Employee employee = new Employee("Andre", "Salgado", "Graduated","SWITCH Student", 1);
    //act
    employee.setLastName("Doce");
    //assert
    assertEquals("Doce", employee.getLastName());
}

@Test
void testSetLastNameInvalid() {
    //arrenge
    Employee employee = new Employee("Andre", "Salgado", "Graduated","SWITCH Student", 1);
    //act + assert
    assertThrows(IllegalArgumentException.class, () -> employee.setLastName(""));
}

@Test
void testSetDescriptionValid() {
    //arrenge
    Employee employee = new Employee("Andre", "Salgado", "Graduated","SWITCH Student", 1);
    //act
    employee.setDescription("Junior Developer");
    //assert
    assertEquals("Junior Developer", employee.getDescription());
}

@Test
void testSetJobTitleValid() {
    //arrenge
    Employee employee = new Employee("Andre", "Salgado", "Graduated","SWITCH Student", 1);
    //act
    employee.setJobTitle("Junior Developer");
    //assert
    assertEquals("Junior Developer", employee.getJobTitle());
}

@Test
void testSetDescriptionInvalid() {
    //arrenge
    Employee employee = new Employee("Andre", "Salgado", "Graduated","SWITCH Student", 1);
    //act + assert
    assertThrows(IllegalArgumentException.class, () -> employee.setDescription(""));
}

@Test
void testSetJobYearsValid() {
    //arrenge
    Employee employee = new Employee("Andre", "Salgado", "Graduated","SWITCH Student", 1);
    //act
    employee.setJobYears(10);
    //assert
    assertEquals(10, employee.getJobYears());
}

@Test
void testSetJobYearsInvalid() {
    //arrenge
    Employee employee = new Employee("Andre", "Salgado", "Graduated","SWITCH Student", 1);
    //act + assert
    assertThrows(IllegalArgumentException.class, () -> employee.setJobYears(-1));
}

@Test
void testEqualsAndHashCodeWithIdenticalEmployees() {
    //arrenge
    Employee employee1 = new Employee("Andre", "Salgado", "Graduated","SWITCH Student", 1);
    Employee employee2 = new Employee("Andre", "Salgado", "Graduated","SWITCH Student", 1);
    //act + assert
    assertTrue(employee1.equals(employee2));
    assertEquals(employee1.hashCode(), employee2.hashCode());
}

@Test
void testEqualsAndHashCodeWithDifferentEmployees() {
    //arrenge
    Employee employee1 = new Employee("Andre", "Salgado", "Graduated","SWITCH Student", 1);
    Employee employee2 = new Employee("Fulano", "Doce", "Master","Junior Developer", 1);
    //act + assert
    assertFalse(employee1.equals(employee2));
    assertNotEquals(employee1.hashCode(), employee2.hashCode());
}

@Test
void testToString() {
    //arrenge
    Employee employee = new Employee("Andre", "Salgado", "Graduated","SWITCH Student", 1);
    //act
    String expectedString = "Employee{id=null, firstName='Andre', lastName='Salgado', description='Graduated', jobTitle='SWITCH Student', jobYears='1'}";
    //assert
    assertEquals(expectedString, employee.toString());
}

@Test
void testGetId() {
    //arrenge + act
    Employee employee = new Employee("Andre", "Salgado", "Graduated","SWITCH Student", 1);

    //assert
    assertNull(employee.getId());
}

@Test
void testSetId() {
    //arrenge
    Employee employee = new Employee("John", "Doe", "NoDescription","Developer", 5);
    Long newId = 123L;
    //act
    employee.setId(newId);
    //assert
    assertEquals(newId, employee.getId());
}
```

12. **Running Application and Debug:**

To run the application we must first use the **cd** command in terminal to access the Basic folder and then **./mvnw spring-boot:run** to run it. Then to see if it is running, **http://localhost:8080/** is used.
After that, we have confirmation that the new fields were successfully implemented.

13. **Pushing and Tagging New Version:**

During the previous steps, commits were being made with **git add .** and **git commit -m "message"** in the terminal.
After that the **git push -u origin master** is used and then **git tag -a v1.2.0 -m "version 1.2.0"** and pushed with **git push --tags**

As previously said, the JobTitle was made in a further "Fix v1.1.0" commit due to it being in the lecture class PDF and not exactly part of the class assignment PDF.
But since it was asked to do so, it was made.

14. **Marking assignment as Part 1.1**

With all that done, and the readme file ready, it is time to push the commits and tag it **git tag ca1-part1.1 -m "ca1-part1.1"** and **git push origin ca1-part1.1**.

#### Part 1.2: Developing in Secondary Branch

1. **Creating a new Branch**

To create a new branch to develop the email field, we start using the command **git checkout -b email-field**.
That will create a new branch called "email-field" and put us into it.

2. **Adding email field to Employee Class**

We start now adding the field to Employee class atributes and constructor, parameters, validations.:
Bellow there will be only the relevant part:

Atribute:
```java
private String email;
```

Parameter and Validation into Constructor:
```java
public Employee(String firstName, String lastName, String description, String jobTitle, int jobYears, String email) {
  if (!isStringParameterValid(firstName) || !isStringParameterValid(lastName) || !isStringParameterValid(description) || !isStringParameterValid(jobTitle) || !isJobYearsValid(jobYears) || !isStringParameterValid(email)) {
    throw new IllegalArgumentException("Invalid parameters");
  }
  this.firstName = firstName;
  this.lastName = lastName;
  this.description = description;
  this.jobTitle = jobTitle;
  this.jobYears = jobYears;
  this.email = email;
}
```

Adding the following line to Equals Override method:
```java
Objects.equals(email, employee.email);
```

Adding to hashCode Override:
```java
@Override
public int hashCode() {

		return Objects.hash(id, firstName, lastName, description, jobTitle, jobYears, email);
}
```

Adding Getters and Setters:
```java
public String getEmail() {
return email;
}

public void setEmail(String email) {
    if (!isStringParameterValid(email)) {
        throw new IllegalArgumentException("Invalid parameters");
    }
    this.email = email;
}
```

Adding a line to toString() method:
```java
", email='" + email + '\'' +
```

3. **Adding email app.js file**

Adding to EmployeeList the following line:
```javascript
<th>Email</th>
```

Adding to Employee the following line:
```javascript
<td>{this.props.employee.email}</td>
```

4. **Adding email DatabaseLoader.java file**

Adding email field to parameters into the run():
```java
@Override
public void run(String... strings) throws Exception { // <4>
  this.repository.save(new Employee("Frodo", "Baggins", "hobbit", "ring bearer",2, "frodobag@lotr.com"));
}
```

5. **Adding email to EmployeeTest.java file**

Adding email parameter to all existing tests just like the example bellow:
```java
Employee employee = new Employee("Andre", "Salgado", "Graduated", "SWITCH Student", 1,"andre.msalgado@hotmail.com");
```

It was also needed to add some email assertations in some existing tests.

Adding Setter Tests:
```java
@Test
void testSetEmailValid() {
  //arrenge
  Employee employee = new Employee("Andre", "Salgado", "Graduated", "SWITCH Student", 1,"1241899@isep.ipp.pt");
  //act
  employee.setEmail("1234@isep.ipp.pt");
  //assert
  assertEquals("1234@isep.ipp.pt", employee.getEmail());
}

@Test
void testSetEmailInvalid() {
  //arrenge
  Employee employee = new Employee("Andre", "Salgado", "Graduated","SWITCH Student", 1,"1241899@isep.ipp.pt");
  //act + assert
  assertThrows(IllegalArgumentException.class, () -> employee.setEmail(""));
}
```

6. **Running Application and Merge Branches**

After everything is in place and with the application running correctly, it is time to merge the branches.
Along this assignment some **git add .** and **git commit -m "message"** were made. After everything was set in place, a **git push -u origin email-field**.
Now to merge the branches. We have to change our current branch to main with **git checkout main**, then 

## Part 2:

Commit message:

Added asset image and updated readme

CA1/README.md, after:

# CA1: Version Control with Git: Technical Report

**Author:** André Salgado
**Date:** 12/03/2025
**Course:** DevOps
**Programme:** SWitCH DEV
**Institution:** ISEP

## Table of Contents

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Assignment Setup](#assignment-setup)
- [Part 1: Developing in Master Branch](#part-1-developing-in-master-branch)
  - [Goals](#goals)
  - [Development](#development)
    - [Part 1.1](#part-11)
    - [Part 1.2](#part-12)
- [Part 2](#part-2)


## Introduction
This report details the **Class Assignment** 1 for the DevOps course. This assignment has two parts: **Part 1** Version Control with Git, and **Part 2** Build Tools with Gradle. Project results are detailed in the **Final Results** section.

## Assignment Setup
The first steps of the assignment are to clone the application to the computer local folder using **git clone <example-URL>** and then change directory using **cd** command to access the Basic folder and run the application using **./mvnw spring-boot:run**. After a few tweaks the application run successfully. 
Following that, I made a new repository named after DevOps / School Year / Student ID. Then I cloned the repository to a local folder in my computer using **git clone <my-repository-URL>**.

## Part 1

### Goals
-   Create CA1/part1 directory and copy the Basic folder from example repository into the new folder.
-   Add a JobYears (integer) field to the application.
-   Add support for the new field.
-   Add unit tests for testing the creation of Employees and the validation of their attributes (for instance, no null/empty values).
-   Debug the server and client parts of the solution.
-   Once the new feature is completed (and tested) commit and push with a new tag (v1.2.0).
-   At the end of the assignment mark the repository with the tag ca1-part1.1.


### Development
In the first part of the assignment setup tasks we are also asked to create a new folder using **mkdir CA1/part1** and then copied the Basic folder of the example application into part1 folder.
After the part one setup, the first commit was made and pushed using the commands **git add .** and **git commit -m "Added basic files to repository"**. This first commit was then pushed via **git push -u origin master**.
Following that, the commit was tagged with the command **git tag -a v1.1.0 -m "version 1.1.0"** and pushed with **git push --tags**.

With everything now in place and the application running, it is time to add the JobYears field to the Employee file and parameter validation methods.
It is worth mentioning that later in the development of Part 1 I noticed that in the Lecture class a JobTitle field was also asked during setup.
Even tho it was included in a later fix, the development notes will consider it as being integrated at same time as JobYears.

#### Part 1.1: Developing in Master Branch

1. **Adding JobYears to Atributes:**

```java
public class Employee {

    private @Id @GeneratedValue Long id; // <2>
	private String firstName;
	private String lastName;
	private String description;
	private String jobTitle;
	private int jobYears;
```

2. **Adding Parameter Validation Methods:**

```java
private boolean isStringParameterValid(String x) {
return x != null && !x.isBlank();
}

private boolean isJobYearsValid(int x) {
    return x >= 0;
}
```

3. **Adding Parameter and validations to Constructor:**

```java
public Employee(String firstName, String lastName, String description, String jobTitle,int jobYears) {
    if (!isStringParameterValid(firstName) || !isStringParameterValid(lastName) || !isStringParameterValid(description) || !isStringParameterValid(jobTitle) || !isJobYearsValid(jobYears)) {
        throw new IllegalArgumentException("Invalid parameters");
    }
    this.firstName = firstName;
    this.lastName = lastName;
    this.description = description;
    this.jobTitle = jobTitle;
    this.jobYears = jobYears;
}
```

4. **Adding fields to Equals Override:**

```java
@Override
    public boolean equals(Object o) {
    if (this == o) return true;
    if (o == null || getClass() != o.getClass()) return false;
    Employee employee = (Employee) o;
    return Objects.equals(id, employee.id) &&
        Objects.equals(firstName, employee.firstName) &&
        Objects.equals(lastName, employee.lastName) &&
        Objects.equals(description, employee.description) &&
        Objects.equals(jobTitle, employee.jobTitle) &&
        Objects.equals(jobYears, employee.jobYears);
}
```

5. **Adding fields to Hashcode Override:**

```java
@Override
public int hashCode() {

		return Objects.hash(id, firstName, lastName, description, jobTitle, jobYears);
	}
```

6. **Adding Validation to Existing Setters:**

Existing Setters received a new validation method: isStringParameterValid(String string).
This is true for all existing setters as showed in the example bellow:

```java
public void setFirstName(String firstName) {
    if (!isStringParameterValid(firstName)) {
        throw new IllegalArgumentException("Invalid parameters");
    }
    this.firstName = firstName;
}
```

7. **Adding new Getter and Setter for new fields:**

Since news field were added, new getters and setters were added, including their validations:
```java
public String getJobTitle() {
    return jobTitle;
}

public void setJobTitle(String jobTitle) {
    if (!isStringParameterValid(jobTitle)) {
        throw new IllegalArgumentException("Invalid parameters");
    }
    this.jobTitle = jobTitle;
}

public int getJobYears() {
    return jobYears;
}

public void setJobYears(int jobYears) {
    if (!isJobYearsValid(jobYears)) {
        throw new IllegalArgumentException("Invalid parameters");
    }
    this.jobYears = jobYears;
}
```

8. **Adding fields to toString Override:**

```java
@Override
public String toString() {
    return "Employee{" +
        "id=" + id +
        ", firstName='" + firstName + '\'' +
        ", lastName='" + lastName + '\'' +
        ", description='" + description + '\'' +
        ", jobTitle='" + jobTitle + '\'' +
        ", jobYears='" + jobYears + '\'' +
        '}';
}
```

9. **Adding fields to app.js file:**

```javascript
class EmployeeList extends React.Component{
    render() {
        const employees = this.props.employees.map(employee =>
            <Employee key={employee._links.self.href} employee={employee}/>
        );
        return (
            <table>
                <tbody>
                <tr>
                    <th>First Name</th>
                    <th>Last Name</th>
                    <th>Description</th>
                    <th>Job Title</th>
                    <th>Job Years</th>
                </tr>
                {employees}
                </tbody>
            </table>
        )
    }
}

class Employee extends React.Component{
    render() {
        return (
            <tr>
                <td>{this.props.employee.firstName}</td>
                <td>{this.props.employee.lastName}</td>
                <td>{this.props.employee.description}</td>
                <td>{this.props.employee.jobTitle}</td>
                <td>{this.props.employee.jobYears}</td>
            </tr>
        )
    }
}
```

10. **Adding fields to DatabaseLoader.java file:**

```java
@Override
public void run(String... strings) throws Exception { // <4>
    this.repository.save(new Employee("Frodo", "Baggins", "hobbit", "ring bearer",2));
}
```

11. **Tests for the Employee and it's new validation methods:**

Extensive tests were created in order to get 100% coverage in all new fields and methods.
You can see all introduced tests bellow:

```java
@Test
void testEmployeeConstructorNoArgs() {
    //arrenge
    Employee employee = new Employee();
    // act + assert
    assertNotNull(employee);
    assertNull(employee.getId());
    assertNull(employee.getFirstName());
    assertNull(employee.getLastName());
    assertNull(employee.getDescription());
    assertEquals(0, employee.getJobYears());
}

@Test
void shouldSuccessfullyCreateAnObjectEmployee() throws Exception {
    // arrange + act
    Employee employee = new Employee("Andre", "Salgado", "Graduated", "SWITCH Student", 1);

    //assert
    assertEquals("Andre", employee.getFirstName());
    assertEquals("Salgado", employee.getLastName());
    assertEquals("Graduated", employee.getDescription());
    assertEquals("SWITCH Student", employee.getJobTitle());
    assertEquals(1, employee.getJobYears());
}

@Test
void testEmployeeConstructorInvalidFirstName() {
    //arrenge + act + assert
    assertThrows(IllegalArgumentException.class, () -> new Employee("", "Salgado", "Graduated","SWITCH Student", 1));
    assertThrows(IllegalArgumentException.class, () -> new Employee(" ", "Salgado", "Graduated", "SWITCH Student", 1));
    assertThrows(IllegalArgumentException.class, () -> new Employee(null, "Salgado", "Graduated", "SWITCH Student", 1));
}

@Test
void testEmployeeConstructorInvalidLastName() {
    //arrenge + act + assert
    assertThrows(IllegalArgumentException.class, () -> new Employee("Andre", "", "Graduated", "SWITCH Student", 1));
    assertThrows(IllegalArgumentException.class, () -> new Employee("Andre", " ", "Graduated", "SWITCH Student", 1));
    assertThrows(IllegalArgumentException.class, () -> new Employee("Andre", null, "Graduated", "SWITCH Student", 1));
}

@Test
void testEmployeeConstructorInvalidDescription() {
    //arrenge + act + assert
    assertThrows(IllegalArgumentException.class, () -> new Employee("Andre", "Salgado", "", "SWITCH Student",1));
    assertThrows(IllegalArgumentException.class, () -> new Employee("Andre", "Salgado", " ", "SWITCH Student", 1));
    assertThrows(IllegalArgumentException.class, () -> new Employee("Andre", "Salgado", null, "SWITCH Student", 1));
}

@Test
void testEmployeeConstructorInvalidJobTitle() {
    //arrenge + act + assert
    assertThrows(IllegalArgumentException.class, () -> new Employee("Andre", "Salgado", "Graduated", "",1));
    assertThrows(IllegalArgumentException.class, () -> new Employee("Andre", "Salgado", "Graduated", " ", 1));
    assertThrows(IllegalArgumentException.class, () -> new Employee("Andre", "Salgado", "Graduated", null, 1));
}

@Test
void testEmployeeConstructorInvalidJobYear() {
    //arrenge + act + assert
    assertThrows(IllegalArgumentException.class, () -> new Employee("Andre", "Salgado", "Graduated","SWITCH Student", -1));
    assertThrows(IllegalArgumentException.class, () -> new Employee("Andre", "Salgado", "Graduated", "SWITCH Student", -2));
}

@Test
void testSetFirstNameValid() {
    //arrenge
    Employee employee = new Employee("Andre", "Salgado", "Graduated", "SWITCH Student", 1);
    //act
    employee.setFirstName("Fulano");
    //assert
    assertEquals("Fulano", employee.getFirstName());
}

@Test
void testSetFirstNameInvalid() {
    //arrenge
    Employee employee = new Employee("Andre", "Salgado", "Graduated","SWITCH Student", 1);
    //act + assert
    assertThrows(IllegalArgumentException.class, () -> employee.setFirstName(""));
}

@Test
void testSetLastNameValid() {
    //arrenge
    Employee employee = new Employee("Andre", "Salgado", "Graduated","SWITCH Student", 1);
    //act
    employee.setLastName("Doce");
    //assert
    assertEquals("Doce", employee.getLastName());
}

@Test
void testSetLastNameInvalid() {
    //arrenge
    Employee employee = new Employee("Andre", "Salgado", "Graduated","SWITCH Student", 1);
    //act + assert
    assertThrows(IllegalArgumentException.class, () -> employee.setLastName(""));
}

@Test
void testSetDescriptionValid() {
    //arrenge
    Employee employee = new Employee("Andre", "Salgado", "Graduated","SWITCH Student", 1);
    //act
    employee.setDescription("Junior Developer");
    //assert
    assertEquals("Junior Developer", employee.getDescription());
}

@Test
void testSetJobTitleValid() {
    //arrenge
    Employee employee = new Employee("Andre", "Salgado", "Graduated","SWITCH Student", 1);
    //act
    employee.setJobTitle("Junior Developer");
    //assert
    assertEquals("Junior Developer", employee.getJobTitle());
}

@Test
void testSetDescriptionInvalid() {
    //arrenge
    Employee employee = new Employee("Andre", "Salgado", "Graduated","SWITCH Student", 1);
    //act + assert
    assertThrows(IllegalArgumentException.class, () -> employee.setDescription(""));
}

@Test
void testSetJobYearsValid() {
    //arrenge
    Employee employee = new Employee("Andre", "Salgado", "Graduated","SWITCH Student", 1);
    //act
    employee.setJobYears(10);
    //assert
    assertEquals(10, employee.getJobYears());
}

@Test
void testSetJobYearsInvalid() {
    //arrenge
    Employee employee = new Employee("Andre", "Salgado", "Graduated","SWITCH Student", 1);
    //act + assert
    assertThrows(IllegalArgumentException.class, () -> employee.setJobYears(-1));
}

@Test
void testEqualsAndHashCodeWithIdenticalEmployees() {
    //arrenge
    Employee employee1 = new Employee("Andre", "Salgado", "Graduated","SWITCH Student", 1);
    Employee employee2 = new Employee("Andre", "Salgado", "Graduated","SWITCH Student", 1);
    //act + assert
    assertTrue(employee1.equals(employee2));
    assertEquals(employee1.hashCode(), employee2.hashCode());
}

@Test
void testEqualsAndHashCodeWithDifferentEmployees() {
    //arrenge
    Employee employee1 = new Employee("Andre", "Salgado", "Graduated","SWITCH Student", 1);
    Employee employee2 = new Employee("Fulano", "Doce", "Master","Junior Developer", 1);
    //act + assert
    assertFalse(employee1.equals(employee2));
    assertNotEquals(employee1.hashCode(), employee2.hashCode());
}

@Test
void testToString() {
    //arrenge
    Employee employee = new Employee("Andre", "Salgado", "Graduated","SWITCH Student", 1);
    //act
    String expectedString = "Employee{id=null, firstName='Andre', lastName='Salgado', description='Graduated', jobTitle='SWITCH Student', jobYears='1'}";
    //assert
    assertEquals(expectedString, employee.toString());
}

@Test
void testGetId() {
    //arrenge + act
    Employee employee = new Employee("Andre", "Salgado", "Graduated","SWITCH Student", 1);

    //assert
    assertNull(employee.getId());
}

@Test
void testSetId() {
    //arrenge
    Employee employee = new Employee("John", "Doe", "NoDescription","Developer", 5);
    Long newId = 123L;
    //act
    employee.setId(newId);
    //assert
    assertEquals(newId, employee.getId());
}
```

12. **Running Application and Debug:**

To run the application we must first use the **cd** command in terminal to access the Basic folder and then **./mvnw spring-boot:run** to run it. Then to see if it is running, **http://localhost:8080/** is used.
The application was running successfully but the debug image of the browser's react plugin will be displayed in the end of the Part 1.2.
After that, we have confirmation that the new fields were successfully implemented.

13. **Pushing and Tagging New Version:**

During the previous steps, commits were being made with **git add .** and **git commit -m "message"** in the terminal.
After that the **git push -u origin master** is used and then **git tag -a v1.2.0 -m "version 1.2.0"** and pushed with **git push --tags**

As previously said, the JobTitle was made in a further "Fix v1.1.0" commit due to it being in the lecture class PDF and not exactly part of the class assignment PDF.
But since it was asked to do so, it was made.

14. **Marking assignment as Part 1.1**

With all that done, and the readme file ready, it is time to push the commits and tag it **git tag ca1-part1.1 -m "ca1-part1.1"** and **git push origin ca1-part1.1**.

#### Part 1.2: Developing in Secondary Branch

1. **Creating a new Branch**

To create a new branch to develop the email field, we start using the command **git checkout -b email-field**.
That will create a new branch called "email-field" and put us into it.

2. **Adding email field to Employee Class**

We start now adding the field to Employee class atributes and constructor, parameters, validations.:
Bellow there will be only the relevant part:

Atribute:
```java
private String email;
```

Parameter and Validation into Constructor:
```java
public Employee(String firstName, String lastName, String description, String jobTitle, int jobYears, String email) {
  if (!isStringParameterValid(firstName) || !isStringParameterValid(lastName) || !isStringParameterValid(description) || !isStringParameterValid(jobTitle) || !isJobYearsValid(jobYears) || !isStringParameterValid(email)) {
    throw new IllegalArgumentException("Invalid parameters");
  }
  this.firstName = firstName;
  this.lastName = lastName;
  this.description = description;
  this.jobTitle = jobTitle;
  this.jobYears = jobYears;
  this.email = email;
}
```

Adding the following line to Equals Override method:
```java
Objects.equals(email, employee.email);
```

Adding to hashCode Override:
```java
@Override
public int hashCode() {

		return Objects.hash(id, firstName, lastName, description, jobTitle, jobYears, email);
}
```

Adding Getters and Setters:
```java
public String getEmail() {
return email;
}

public void setEmail(String email) {
    if (!isStringParameterValid(email)) {
        throw new IllegalArgumentException("Invalid parameters");
    }
    this.email = email;
}
```

Adding a line to toString() method:
```java
", email='" + email + '\'' +
```

3. **Adding email app.js file**

Adding to EmployeeList the following line:
```javascript
<th>Email</th>
```

Adding to Employee the following line:
```javascript
<td>{this.props.employee.email}</td>
```

4. **Adding email DatabaseLoader.java file**

Adding email field to parameters into the run():
```java
@Override
public void run(String... strings) throws Exception { // <4>
  this.repository.save(new Employee("Frodo", "Baggins", "hobbit", "ring bearer",2, "frodobag@lotr.com"));
}
```

5. **Adding email to EmployeeTest.java file**

Adding email parameter to all existing tests just like the example bellow:
```java
Employee employee = new Employee("Andre", "Salgado", "Graduated", "SWITCH Student", 1,"andre.msalgado@hotmail.com");
```

It was also needed to add some email assertations in some existing tests.

Adding Setter Tests:
```java
@Test
void testSetEmailValid() {
  //arrenge
  Employee employee = new Employee("Andre", "Salgado", "Graduated", "SWITCH Student", 1,"1241899@isep.ipp.pt");
  //act
  employee.setEmail("1234@isep.ipp.pt");
  //assert
  assertEquals("1234@isep.ipp.pt", employee.getEmail());
}

@Test
void testSetEmailInvalid() {
  //arrenge
  Employee employee = new Employee("Andre", "Salgado", "Graduated","SWITCH Student", 1,"1241899@isep.ipp.pt");
  //act + assert
  assertThrows(IllegalArgumentException.class, () -> employee.setEmail(""));
}
```

6. **Running Application and Merge Branches**

The application is started using the **./mvnw spring-boot:run** and using the react plugin in the browser we can see the debug as showed the image bellow:

![Image](./assets/images/ssreact.jpg)

After everything is in place and with the application running correctly, it is time to merge the branches.
Along this assignment some **git add .** and **git commit -m "message"** were made. After everything was set in place, a **git push -u origin email-field**.
Now to merge the branches. We have to change our current branch to main with **git checkout main**, then **git pull origin main** in case there are more people editing the repository.
Once the main is up to date it is time to merger the email-field with the main branch with **git merge email-field**. There were no conflicts to resolve since there is no other person editing files.
And at last, **git push origin main** and the tag command **git tag -a v1.3.0 -m "Version 1.3.0"**.

7. **Adding Email Validation**

In the task it is also asked to create a third branch with the name **fix-invalid-email**.
The previous steps for creating a new branch will be repeated now. Only the validation solution will be displayed here.


## Part 2:
